feat: update chat widget docs to v5 with new customer-sdk version (#1664)
livechat/livechat-public-docs: src/pages/extending-chat-widget/customer-sdk/index.mdx

Parameters:

| parameters                  | type    | description                                                                                                       |
| --------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| data.active                 | boolean | Optional; defaults to `true` but can be used to create threads that are immediately inactive                      |
| data.continuous             | boolean | Optional                                                                                                          |
| data.welcomeMessageId       | string  | Optional; ID of a previously received welcome message                                                             |
| data.chat.id                | string  |                                                                                                                   |
| data.chat.access            | Access  | Optional                                                                                                          |

> | data.chat.properties        | object  | Optional, [Default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| data.chat.properties        | object  | Optional; [default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |
```

| data.chat.thread.events     | Event[] | Optional; you can pass initial events which will immediately become part of the created thread.                   |

> | data.chat.thread.properties | object  | Optional, [Default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| data.chat.thread.properties | object  | Optional; [default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |
```

Parameters:

| parameters             | type    | description                                                                                                       |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | active                 | boolean | Optional, defaults to `true` but can be used to create threads that are immediately inactive                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| active                 | boolean | Optional; defaults to `true` but can be used to create threads that are immediately inactive                      |
```

| continuous             | boolean | Optional                                                                                                          |
| welcomeMessageId       | string  | Optional; ID of a previously received welcome message                                                             |
| chat.access            | access  | Optional                                                                                                          |

> | chat.properties        | object  | Optional, [Default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| chat.properties        | object  | Optional; [default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |
```

| chat.thread.events     | event[] | Optional; initial events that will immediately become a part of the created thread.                               |

> | chat.thread.properties | object  | Optional, [Default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| chat.thread.properties | object  | Optional; [default properties docs](https://platform.text.com/docs/messaging/references/default-properties) |
```

| -------- | ------ |
| id       | string |

## Customer identity changed

> Indicates that the customer identity has changed, typically due to browser privacy features blocking authentication cookies. The SDK handles this gracefully by clearing sensitive session data and switching to the new identity without crashing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicates that the customer identity has changed, typically due to browser privacy features blocking authentication cookies. The SDK handles this by clearing sensitive session data and switching to the new identity.
```

| typingIndicator.authorId | string  | User ID     |
| typingIndicator.isTyping | boolean |             |

## Incoming thinking indicator

Indicates that an AI agent is currently thinking or processing a request.

> The push payload contains information about the thinking state including optional custom title and description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The push payload contains information about the thinking state, including an optional custom title and description.
```

```js
customerSDK.on('incoming_thinking_indicator', payload => {
  console.log(`Agent ${payload.authorId} is thinking in chat ${payload.chatId}`)

  if (payload.title) {
    console.log(`Thinking title: ${payload.title}`)
  }

  if (payload.description) {
    console.log(`Thinking description: ${payload.description}`)
  }

  if (payload.customId) {
    console.log(`Custom ID: ${payload.customId}`)
  }
})
```

Payload:

| properties  | type   | description                                                 |
| ----------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| chatId      | string | Chat ID                                                     |
| threadId    | string | Thread ID                                                   |

> | authorId    | string | Agent ID who is thinking                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| authorId    | string | The ID of the agent that is thinking          |
```

| sentAt      | string | ISO timestamp when the thinking indicator was sent          |

> | customId    | string | Optional. Custom identifier for dismissing this indicator   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| customId    | string | Optional; custom identifier for dismissing this indicator.   |
```

> | title       | string | Optional. Custom thinking title (defaults to "Thinking...") |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| title       | string | Optional; custom thinking title (defaults to "Thinking...") |
```

> | description | string | Optional. Additional description text                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| description | string | Optional; additional description text.                       |
```

## Incoming welcome message

Indicates a welcome message received in response to [`requestWelcomeMessage`](#requestwelcomemessage).
If you want to include the welcome message in the chat, you can use the `welcome_message_id` parameter in the [`resumeChat`](#resumechat) or [`startChat`](#startchat) method.

```js
customerSDK.on('incoming_welcome_message', payload => {
  const { id, event } = payload
  console.log('incoming_welcome_message', { id, event })
})
```

Payload:

| properties | type   | description                   |
| ---------- | ------ | ----------------------------- |
| id         | string | Welcome message ID            |
| event      | object | Message or rich message event |

## Incoming event preview

> Indicates an event preview before it's officially sent to the chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicates an event preview before it's sent to the chat. Only text events are supported for preview.
```

> This allows clients to display a preview of the event content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Only text events are supported for preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Identity mismatch

> Customer SDK handles identity changes gracefully by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer SDK handles identity changes by:
```

- Automatically switching to the new customer identity
- Clearing sensitive session data (chats, cached user data) for security

> - Maintaining SDK functionality without crashes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maintaining the SDK functionality without crashes
```

> - Emitting an `identity_changed` event for developer awareness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Emitting an `identity_changed` event so you can respond to identity updates.
```

## License expired

The subscription for LiveChat product associated with the specified ID has expired. You should make sure that there are no unpaid invoices for it.

## License not found

> The LiveChat product associated with the specified ID doesn't exist. You should check the options passed in to Customer SDK and make sure that the parameters provided are correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided organization ID doesn't exist. Check the options passed to the Customer SDK and ensure the parameters are correct.
```

## License expired

> The subscription for LiveChat product associated with the specified ID has expired. You should make sure that there are no unpaid invoices for it.

Reviewer: Will the Customer SDK not work for Text?

Author: it will, what copy would you suggest here?

Reviewer: Let's just go "agnostic" then 😌 
```suggestion
The subscription associated with the specified organization ID has expired. Ensure there are no unpaid invoices for this subscription.
```

# Changelog

## [v5.0.0] - 2026-05-12

### Added

- New `reason` field to `user_removed_from_chat` event, indicating why the user was removed.
- New `sendGreetingButtonClicked` method for tracking greeting button clicks.
- New `requestWelcomeMessage` method for requesting welcome messages.
- Support for `incoming_thinking_indicator` push event.
- Support for `incoming_event_preview` push event.
- Support for `incoming_welcome_message` push event.
- Support for `identity_changed` event.
- Support for `ecommerce` template in rich messages.
- Optional `formType` field on parsed `form` and `filled_form` events, representing the custom form type assigned by the server.
- Support for optional `tabId` configuration parameter, sent as `tab_id` in the login payload.

### Changed

> - Switched to using Customer API 3.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Switched to the Customer Chat API v3.6.
```

### Added

- `customer` data available in the `connected` callback

> - `statistics` property available on the Customer object returned from the `getCustomer` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `statistics` property available on the `Customer` object returned from the `getCustomer` method
```

- `new_event` event has been renamed to `incoming_event`.

> - `customer_updated` doesn't provide the whole Customer object anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `customer_updated` doesn't provide the whole `Customer` object anymore.
```
